

maslow and pavlov are important names to consider


	maslow's pyramid, as to whether it represents the totality of the univwrsal hierarchy of human motivation i am skeptical, for i am skeptical that a universally applicable hierarchy even exists, as an integralrepresentation. therefore it is best to apply this model with caution. i learned that the pyramid can be inverted and it is still applicable! similar transmutations should be conducted by you. 

pavlov and his experiments with cachorros, dogs. the ways this has been extrapolated to humans in education. the dumbing down effect. the intentionality of it. the case in africa/senegal and uganda, the Brirish empire used language and schooling to destroy cultures and dominate others.donwe still act like this? look into the meta of pavlov, who came first, edward bernays. he is the grandson of Freud and created modern marketing. look at the rockefeller commison on education and the books of the founding director of the state-run education board. look at mkultra's funding of psychology and pscychiatry on unwitting victims. look at the entire spectrum of human experimentation. ook at la privatación de la agua en la Bolívia.Look at the Belo Monte Dam on the river running through one of the last free indigenous territories. we cannot continue like this, Alcoa.. 1973 trilatreal comission report on "the crisis of democracy": noam chomsky has an article, "The Carter Administration: Myth and Reality" which is an excerpt of his 1981 publication "Radical Priorities." https://chomsky.info/priorities01/ in it he refers to the reports perspectives about democracy. 
"
The report argues that what is needed in the industrial democracies “is a greater degree of moderation in democracy” to overcome the “excess of democracy” of the past decade. “The effective operation of a democratic political system usually requires some measure of apathy and noninvolvement on the part of some individuals and groups.” This recommendation recalls the analysis of Third World problems put forth by other political thinkers of the same persuasion, for example, Ithiel Pool (then chairman of the Department of Political Science at MIT), who explained some years ago that in Vietnam, the Congo, and the Dominican Republic, “order depends on somehow compelling newly mobilized strata to return to a measure of passivity and defeatism… At least temporarily the maintenance of order requires a lowering of newly acquired aspirations and levels of political activity.”"
